# Berkeley, California

Conley Ernst

In Class Assignment 4

2/5/2018

## Steve Wozniak

Stephen Gary Wozniak, also nicknamed "The Woz", is an American inventor, electronics engineer, programmer, philanthropist, and technology entrepreneur who co-founded Apple Inc. He is known as a pioneer of the personal computer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s, along with Apple co-founder Steve Jobs.

Wozniak single-handedly developed the 1976 Apple I, which was the computer that launched Apple. He primarily designed the 1977 Apple II, known as one of the first highly successful mass-produced microcomputers,[10] while Jobs oversaw the development of its foam-molded plastic case and Rod Holt developed the switching power supply.After stepping away from Apple in 1985, Wozniak founded CL 9 and created the first universal remote. He then became involved in several other business and philanthropic ventures, focusing primarily on tech in K–12 schools. Wozniak is currently Chief Scientist at the data virtualization company, Primary Data, and remains an employee of Apple in a ceremonial capacity.

### Early Life
Steve Wozniak was born in San Jose, California, the son of Francis Jacob "Jerry" Wozniak (1925–1994) from Michigan[1]:18 and Margaret Louise Wozniak (née Kern) (1923–2014)[13] from Washington State.[1]:18 He graduated from Homestead High School in 1968.

The name on Wozniak's birth certificate is "Stephan Gary Wozniak", but Steve's mother said that she intended it to be spelled "Stephen", which is what he uses.[1]:18 Wozniak has mentioned his surname being Polish[14] and Ukrainian[15] and spoken of his Polish descent,[16] but stated that he does not know the origin of some other people with the Wozniak surname because he is "no heritage expert".[14]

In the early 1970s, Wozniak was known as "Berkeley Blue" in the phone phreak community, after he made a blue box.[7][17]

Wozniak has credited watching Star Trek and attending Star Trek conventions while in his youth as a source of inspiration for him starting Apple Inc.[18]

### Career

#### Origins of Apple
In 1969, Wozniak returned to the Bay Area after being expelled from University of Colorado Boulder in his first year for hacking into the institution's computer system. During this time, as a self-taught project, Wozniak designed and built a "Cream Soda" computer with his friend Bill Fernandez. He later re-enrolled at De Anza College and transferred to University of California, Berkeley in 1971. Before focusing his attention on Apple, he was employed at Hewlett-Packard (HP) where he designed calculators.It was during this time that he befriended Steve Jobs.

Wozniak was introduced to Jobs by Fernandez, who attended Homestead High School with Jobs in 1971. Jobs and Wozniak became friends when Jobs worked for the summer at HP, where Wozniak too was employed, working on a mainframe computer. This was recounted by Wozniak in a 2007 interview with ABC News, of how and when he first met Jobs:

"We first met in 1971 during my college years, while he was in high school. A friend said, 'you should meet Steve Jobs, because he likes electronics and he also plays pranks.' So he introduced us."

In 1973, Jobs was working for arcade game company Atari, Inc. in Los Gatos, California He was assigned to create a circuit board for the arcade video game Breakout. According to Atari co-founder Nolan Bushnell, Atari offered $100 (equivalent to $551 in 2017) for each chip that was eliminated in the machine. Jobs had little knowledge of circuit board design and made a deal with Wozniak to split the fee evenly between them if Wozniak could minimize the number of chips. Wozniak reduced the number of chips by 50, by using RAM for the brick representation. Too complex to be fully comprehended at the time, the fact that this prototype also had no scoring or coin mechanisms meant Woz's prototype could not be used. Jobs was paid the full bonus regardless. Jobs told Wozniak that Atari gave them only $700 and that Wozniak's share was thus $350 (equivalent to $1,929 in 2017). Wozniak did not learn about the actual $5,000 bonus (equivalent to $27,564 in 2017) until ten years later, but said that if Jobs had told him about it and had said he needed the money, Wozniak would have given it to him.

On June 29, 1975 Wozniak tested his first working prototype, displaying a few letters and running sample programs. It was the first time in history that a character displayed on a TV screen was generated by a home computer. With the Apple I design, he and Jobs were largely working to impress other members of the Palo Alto-based Homebrew Computer Club, a local group of electronics hobbyists interested in computing. The Club was one of several key centers which established the home hobbyist era, essentially creating the microcomputer industry over the next few decades. Unlike other Homebrew designs, the Apple had an easy-to-achieve video capability that drew a crowd when it was unveiled.

#### Apple formation and success
See also: History of Apple § 1975–1985: Jobs and Wozniak

Original 1976 Apple 1 Computer in a briefcase. From the Sydney Powerhouse Museum collection
In 1976, Wozniak developed the computer that eventually made him famous. He alone designed the hardware, circuit board designs, and operating system for the Apple I. Wozniak originally offered the design to HP while working there, but was denied by the company on five different occasions. Jobs instead had the idea to sell the Apple I with Wozniak as a fully assembled printed circuit board. Wozniak, at first skeptical, was later convinced by Jobs that even if they were not successful they could at least say to their grandkids they had had their own company. Together they sold some of their possessions (such as Wozniak's HP scientific calculator and Jobs' Volkswagen van), raised $1,300, and assembled the first boards in Jobs' bedroom and later (when there was no space left) in Jobs' garage. Wozniak's apartment in San Jose was filled with monitors, electronic devices, and some computer games Wozniak had developed. The Apple I sold for $666.66. (Wozniak later said he had no idea about the relation between the number and the mark of the beast, and "I came up with because I like repeating digits.") Jobs and Wozniak sold their first 50 system boards to Paul Terrell, who was starting a new computer shop, called the Byte Shop, in Mountain View, California.

### Honorary degrees:
- University of Colorado at Boulder
- North Carolina State University
- Kettering University
- Nova Southeastern University
- ESPOL University in Ecuador
- Michigan State University

Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Wozniak#Honors_and_awards
